[driver. on radio] Inbound
with two tons of bauxite.
[machines whirring]
[cosmonaut. in Russian]
You couldn't be more wrong.
It is a return to the
ideals of Lenin and Stalin.
Oh. please.
I came here to test the
modified anchor clamps.
not discuss geopolitics.
I already tested the clamps.
They work fine.
If only your opinion were
enough for Star City.
Let's go!
[cosmonaut] You don't have Gorbachev
and his cronies to protect you anymore.
New times. Svetlana Zakharova.
Oh. yes.
Will Korzhenko save us
the same way Stalin did?
Shooting dissidents
in the forest
and dumping their
bodies in pits?
[cosmonaut] Stalin won
the Great Patriotic War.
[Svetlana] The blood of an
entire generation won that war.
Not Stalin.
Listen. the West walked
all over Mother Russia!
Korzhenko will return
us to the days when
the world lived in
fear of our might.
You are delusional. Vasily.
And you are a traitor.
Spitting on your own culture
spreading your legs
in front of the West.
Go to hell.
Go yourself.
This is complete bullshit!
[Vasily speaks Russian]
[both grunting]
- [Vasily grunting]
- [suit hisses]
[Vasily wheezes. pants]
Exhale or your lungs will burst!
[wheezing]
[in English] Mayday. Mayday! Happy Valley.
we need a medevac at Depo One ASAP!
[Russian chatter]
and may never regain
consciousness.
I have spoken to
President Korzhenko
and he demands that
there be repercussions.
[in English] Jesus Christ.
What did Mayakovsky say?
Uh. Vasily's still unconscious.
Got a hell of a case of the bends.
Won't be out of the hyperbaric
chambers for another few days minimum.
And that's when they'll know if
there's any long-term damage.
Been seeing more of this up
here in the last couple of weeks
since what happened in Moscow.
Russian against Russian.
We can't have this.
Ed. Not up here.
[groans] What are you saying?
I'm pulling her wings.
[scoffs] Just because he lost the
fight doesn't mean he was innocent.
Svetlana could
have killed Galkin.
But she didn't.
Either way. I'm removing her
from flight status indefinitely.
Come on. Dani. You know
what flying means to her.
Yes. But there have got to be
consequences for what she did.
She'll be confined to the
base without pay for 60 sols.
I think you should reconsider.
You said it yourself. Look. she's
one of the best pilots we got.
And if you wanna stay on the
asteroid training mission schedule.
we'll have a hell of a time
trying to find someone else
to bring up to her level.
I've made my decision.
Bring her in.
[sighs]
[Ed] Svetlana.
[Danielle] Comrade Zakharova.
I have read the incident report.
and I've come to a decision
about your punishment.
It's irrelevant.
What do you mean?
I've just heard from Star City.
I've been recalled to Moscow.
I am to go home on Unity.
Uh. Unity leaves tomorrow.
Why?
I'm to stand trial for assault and
crimes against a patriot of Soviet Union.
But... Wait. That
doesn't make sense.
The Soviets have never recalled a
cosmonaut for something like this before.
Vasily's family is
connected to the new regime.
And with what we've all been
hearing about political retribution
under this new
Soviet government.
I just don't feel like I can agree to
send her back under these circumstances.
As the Commander
of Happy Valley.
my first priority is to
the safety of this crew.
[line clicks]
Well. I gotta say I'm with
Commander Poole on this one.
We can't just stand back while
they ship her to some gulag.
I hear you. Will. I do. But...
where this gets tricky
is with the M-7 Charter
that President Wilson
negotiated with Gorbachev.
[Hughes] It says
it pretty clear.
Any nation that desires to recall
one of its citizens from Mars.
it's within their rights.
So we're just gonna kowtow
to this... this lunatic?
No one said anything
about kowtowing.
The president wants to
stand up for what's right.
But history is not made by talking with
only the people that agree with you.
Now tell us more about
this new head of Roscosmos.
So I know who we're
dealing with here.
[liaison] Irina Morozova.
From what little
we know about her.
she's been in the security
and surveillance apparatus
at Star City since '69.
From an elite Russian
family in Moscow.
She seemed to have fallen out of
favor with the Gorbachev regime.
as did much of the KGB. which. we
think. is why she backed Korzhenko.
We've been getting reports that she's
been slowly purging Roscosmos of those
thought to be disloyal
to the new regime.
And it looks like she's settling
scores up on Mars now too.
Cosmonaut Zakharova was an
outspoken supporter of Gorbachev.
Well. I'm sure a
compromise can be found.
If I can hash out a good deal with
the UAW. I guarantee I can with her.
I like working
with the Russians.
They're direct.
They don't like beating
around the bush.
We'll just have to talk it out.
Here is the underwear for Libes.
dental floss for Crouse.
socks for Halotek.
- Here we go.
- [Miles] Okay.
I got some more orders.
David Markman wants
more beef jerky.
Mmm.
And Reilly wants more porn.
- [chuckles]
- These are his preferred. uh. genres.
Ah. Reilly. he is a sick fuck.
[chuckles] A sick
fuck with money.
[chuckles] My favorite
kind. [chuckles]
And Lee gave me the next
order for the North Koreans.
They want more fungal cream. more
energy bars. more Fruit of the Loom.
This North Korean
market. Milosh.
This is a gold mine.
[chuckles. speaks Russian]
Speaking of which. uh. any
word on that special request?
Our North Korean
friend was asking.
My associate is working on
it. Tell Lee to be patient.
Your. uh...
Your associate. how long
have you worked with him?
Many years. He is friend.
We worked together on
Moon. Now he is Earthside.
And your associate. would he be
interested in other business ventures?
I mean. like. if we found something
up here that we could sell down there?
[laughs] What could people on
Earth want from this wasteland?
Well. I sent my
daughter a Mars rock.
Well. Sam found it
for me. actually.
but it's like a really
rare volcanic glass.
A rock?
Here. Just listen.
She loved the rock you sent her.
but... [sighs] ...don't get mad.
Um. okay. we were
at the Galleria
and I was just browsing for a new
pair of earrings and. you know...
Of course. Lily was playing with
her favorite new shiny red rock.
And the owner of the jewelry
store started asking me
about where the thing came from.
Well. I told her.
And. get this. she offered me
five grand for it on the spot.
[chuckles] She's... She's
gonna make jewelry out of it.
and she wants more.
I'm thinking if your guy
could get it to Amanda.
this could be a big opportunity.
[Ilya] Mmm.
So now we are
import-export. huh?
Why not?
No. Milosh. this
is not what we do.
I have system. Same
system for years.
Ilya. she made five grand
off a couple ounces.
I'm talking about it's
rare even up here.
Could you imagine what
we could do with that?
No. we have to be
careful. You understand?
Start sending things down.
we'd need more people.
More people means more risk.
More mouths to feed.
More ways to get fucked.
My way is the best way.
Milosh. You understand?
Yeah. I understand.
[Hobson] And it
is my sincere hope
that the two of us can find a
reasonable solution to this situation
that is acceptable
to both our nations.
We are partners after all.
[Irina] Indeed. we are.
As partners. we appreciate
your cooperation
in returning Svetlana Zakharova to
the Soviet Union to face justice.
[chuckles] Look. it was just
a little dustup. That's all.
Tempers ran hot.
They're under a lot of pressure to get
the asteroid program up and running.
And from what I'm being
told. Galkin is on the mend.
So this really would be best
handled by Commander Poole in situ.
It is not a question
of his recovery.
Cosmonaut Zakharova broke Soviet
law. Administrator Hobson.
At any rate. the Happy Valley
Commander is on top of the situation.
Our charter clearly states that no
individual member of the M-7 has authority
over base disciplinary action.
That is in the purview
of the base commander.
But this doesn't fall
under base discipline.
As I said. this is about
enforcement of law. Soviet law.
Zakharova's a Soviet citizen and
she assaulted a Soviet citizen.
And the M-7 Charter
also clearly stated
we have the right to recall any
Soviets from Mars at our discretion.
A right we now wish to exercise.
Well. that's the
tricky thing. Irina.
As you know. that agreement was made
when Gorbachev was head of the USSR.
but now with your recent change of
government that you've all experienced...
Am I also to understand that
once Albert Gore became
president of the United States.
all of President Ellen Wilson's
treaties become invalidated?
[Hobson] That...
It is not the same thing.
At all.
Why don't we just cut
to the chase here. okay?
You are insisting
on this because
Vasily Galkin's uncle has
close ties to your new premier.
Propaganda spread by opponents
of the new government.
Galkin's family has
no bearing on this.
As it would have none in
your system of justice.
The simple fact is the United States
is not going to sanction this transfer.
If you don't agree to abide
by the terms we have all
agreed to in the Charter.
then we will be forced to
reconsider participation in the M-7.
[stammers]
[Hobson sighs]
Well. that didn't
go well. did it?
[in Russian] Good day. everyone.
There is much to discuss.
Let's begin.
First order of business.
The Americans have
chosen to disregard
the terms of the Mars Treaty
and are refusing to send
Cosmonaut Zakharova back
to face justice for her
aggression against the nephew
of a highly respected
member of the new politburo.
We must resist
this egregious act.
Our response is in progress.
They will face consequences
for this course of action.
[bureaucrat] Director...
it may be wise to
reconsider this position.
If we hope to reactivate
the asteroid program
Zakharova should
remain at her post.
Are you suggesting
that Zakharova
did not. in fact.
attack Vasily Galkin?
No. I am...
If you were stabbed in
the back. Comrade Babanin.
would you hand the dagger
back to your assailant?
No. of course not.
I did not think so.
We must find out if we can
once again trust the Americans.
To this end.
there will be no reactivation
of the asteroid program
until we know what went wrong
with the Kronos mission.
A tragedy that took the life of
our beloved Comrade Kuznetsov.
Comrade Semenov. you have
the preliminary draft of
the XF Kronos asteroid capture
accident investigation ready for us?
Yes.
Comrade Volkova. would you mind
handing them out for me. please?
[Volkova] Immediately. Comrade.
Please give one to
Margaret Reynolds as well.
I want her to
review the findings.
My apologies. we only
made enough for...
You can give her Babanin's copy.
Comrade Semenov.
please continue.
[Semenov] The American
design was flawed.
The problem was caused by an
underdamped harmonic oscillation.
induced by the spacecraft
altitude control system.
Altitude control thruster
firings on Ranger-1 excited...
[jazz music playing]
[grunts]
[music ends]
[Sam. in English] Commander
Poole's protecting her.
And she's just walking around
up there like nothing happened.
Yukking it up with the XO.
And I heard that Vasily
might be paralyzed too.
Brain-dead.
- That's what Manush told me.
- [Rich] Really?
A cool 20 says Vasily
gets sent home.
and the cosmonaut gets
a slap on the wrist.
No. You really think that?
We gotta spell it out for you? Svetlana.
she's... she's an anointed one.
She's a cosmonaut. And Vasily.
he's just a peasant like us.
I can guarantee you it would
be a very different story
if one of us sends one
of them to the hospital.
- No.
- Very different.
Guys. I mean. Vasily
is kind of an asshole.
[Sam laughs]
What? I mean. you know
it's true. You know it.
And that makes it okay?
What... No. okay.
I'm not saying...
No. the truth is they don't give a
shit if one of us gets hurt or worse.
Hey. Sam. You got a second?
Yeah.
[Maya] It's too much.
It's gotta stop.
[Gerardo] I'm telling
you. that's how it goes.
That obsidian rock. You
remember where you found it?
Yeah. Yeah. It was... It
was by Peckinpah Mesa.
There were a bunch there.
Would you mind taking
me out tomorrow morning?
I think I can sell them back
on Earth. I'll give you a cut.
How can you be thinking about
selling fucking rocks right now
when Vasily's laying in
a hyperbaric chamber?
There's nothing we can
do about that right now.
except not play by those
motherfuckers' rules.
So this is about justice. not
about filling your pockets?
Why can't it be about both?
Come on. I cut a deal
with the suit soop
and he's gonna let me skip the
line and get a pressure suit.
I don't have rover
access and you do.
So you in?
No.
Fine. I'll hoof it.
[Sam scoffs]
[sighs]
Damn it.
[Volkova] Wait.
May I?
[footsteps departing]
Same diameter and weight.
Clever.
If only the coffee
were worth the effort.
I'll take anything
right about now.
[Volkova] Hmm.
[Margo] Thank you.
[coins clatter]
[machine whirs]
[machine clicking]
Are these spin vector calculations for
the new asteroid capture protocols?
Yes.
Yes. and I admit
I'm unable to get the finite element
model to replicate consistently.
May I?
If you switch reference frames.
you might have better luck
with inverting the matrices.
Thank you.
We're even.
Uh. Tatyana
Alexandrovna Volkova.
I'm Margaret.
I know. We all know who you are.
No one even so much
as says. "Hello."
Director Morozova...
Well. she made it very clear that.
uh. we should keep our distance.
Oh.
So why did you help me just now?
Well. a woman without
coffee is a dangerous woman.
[Margo chuckles]
Very true.
[Margo] Good night.
Good night. Ms. Reynolds.
Have you tried rebooting
the primary root server?
Twice. Also tried cycling
the CPU processors.
Zilch. It's still
all in Cyrillic.
Be right back.
Yevgeniy. you know what's going
on with the user interface?
It's all in Cyrillic.
Yes. Roscosmos decided to
revert Ops computer system
back to original
Soviet parameters.
What? That is going to
severely disrupt operations.
As the commander of this base.
any changes need to be run...
Soviet Union no longer recognizes
your role as commander.
You can't be serious.
I'm sorry.
Son of a bitch.
I mean. I thought we were
beyond all this bullshit.
It looks like all the other Soviet-aligned
countries are backing their play.
ESA. JAXA are still with us.
ISRO's playing it coy as usual.
What's Houston got to
say about all this?
Well. Hobson's getting into it with
Moscow. but it's not looking good.
They're digging in their heels. They
still want Svetlana sent back to Earth.
Wish Kuz was here. He wouldn't
have put up with any of this shit.
Yeah. you got that right.
I doubt this is over. so I want
you all to do safety checks.
Then run full diagnostics on all
your equipment. your stations.
make sure everything's
still in working order.
Palmer. let's do a security
sweep of the entire base.
Make sure they're not
up to something else.
And I want to put someone outside of
Svetlana Zakharova's quarters immediately
to make sure the Soviets
don't try and grab her.
Good idea.
All right. you've all
got your marching orders.
Let's meet back
here in two hours.
[Ed. Danielle] All right.
[Gore. on phone] How is
this even possible. Eli?
Well. sir. I...
A month ago. Happy Valley was a
beacon of international cooperation.
And now it's the front
line of a new Cold War.
Mr. President. Al. I'm working on it.
but this new director of Roscosmos...
You remember my speech
in Chicago. don't you?
I said the Cold War was over.
You think they're not going to play
that on repeat until election day?
That is not gonna happen. sir.
I am going to resolve this.
See that you do.
- And may I...
- [line clicks. beeps]
[phone beeps]
[sighs]
[Christine Francis] The future of the M-7
alliance is being called into question
in the wake of a
diplomatic crisis
over the legal status of
Cosmonaut Svetlana Zakharova.
International cooperation has been a
hallmark of the Mars colony to this point.
But that seems to
have evaporated
as several M-7 nations are refusing to
back the Gore administration's efforts
to protect Zakharova from
reprisals by the new Soviet regime.
The growing conflict
has fueled concerns
that this may reignite tensions
between the two superpowers
for the first time
since the early 1990s.
Because of what is at stake.
this matter must be
resolved expeditiously.
but deliberately and without
any rush to judgment.
This is the question
that's on everybody's mind.
Are you worried about how
the current diplomatic crisis
between the United States
and the Soviet Union
will impact Helios's
financial position?
Not at all. Helios is a
multinational corporation.
- We don't have a dog in this fight.
- [Miles] Shaw.
You got my suit
and camera ready?
[Shaw] Pretty cool. huh?
Dev Ayesa back in charge.
Can't wait till he kicks
some ass down there.
Yeah. fuck that guy.
What's your beef with Dev?
Man. he put a lot of
people I know out of work.
Mr. Buzzkill over here.
Here's your camera
and cooling garment.
I'll bring your suit out to you.
Store your shit in one of
those lockers over there.
'cause Helios is a service company.
I'm here to change all that.
To get back to the
original vision.
Building a thriving
colony on Mars.
Not just for astronauts
and scientists.
but for anyone who wants
to make the journey.
[Miles] Hey. how you doing?
My first time out
on the surface.
I'm gonna take some
pictures for the kiddos.
[sighs] And here's your suit.
Can I get one of those suits?
They're all booked.
If you want to get out there today.
this is the only one I got available.
- [helmet clicks]
- [grunts]
[no audible dialogue]
[Shaw] You gotta key your radio.
Is it supposed to
smell like this?
[Miles] They're on
that mesa. pilgrim.
They've been following
us for two days.
Only one tribe wears a
war bonnet like that.
Noyuhka Comanche.
Don't look. you fool!
[breathes heavily]
[grunting] Where the
hell are these things?
This is where Sam
said they'd be.
[breathes heavily]
[breathes heavily] Bingo.
[heavy breathing continues]
[grunts]
[panting] Goddamn it!
[grunts] Fuck!
[panting]
Oh. man! [grunts. shouts]
[screaming]
Commander Poole?
Uh. sorry to bother you...
What's on your mind?
Well. uh...
Ma'am. downstairs. we're. um.
concerned about the way you dealt
with-with Svetlana Zakharova.
Who's we?
Some of us Helios workers.
Look. Vasily was our colleague
and we feel like the punishment
cosmonaut Zakharova receives
should be more appropriate.
How do you know what her
punishment's gonna be?
Well. we heard that you might
not be sending her back.
You heard?
I see.
Right.
Well. I talked to
everybody who was there.
and you have no idea how
complicated the situation is.
- Now. if you'll. excuse me...
- She put him in a hyperbaric chamber.
I mean. the nitrogen in his blood could
lead to a stroke. paralysis or worse.
And she's just walking around
as if it's another day?
It's not right.
You know it's not right.
[sighs]
[beeping]
[Danielle sighs]
How's he progressing. doc?
Arterial gas embolism
is the main concern.
No way to predict.
But he is strong. We can hope.
What do you think
of all this mess?
You and I. we've
been through worse.
Hey. where's Miles?
We gotta get the obsidian into
the hopper cargo before launch.
How should I know. Rich?
Thought you went with him.
No. no. he...
He asked me. but I said no.
He should have been back by now.
It's been almost five hours.
We need to go find him.
[Sam] Miles. Sam. Do you read?
Miles. Samantha.
do you read? Over.
Waters. rover 7. I'm arriving
at Peckinpah Mesa now.
- I think I see where he was headed.
- [Rich] Copy that.
[Sam breathing heavily]
[whispering] No. no. no. No. no.
Thank God. Miles?
Miles. are you okay?
Miles. Miles. Miles!
[suit beeping]
[beeping continues]
Sam. you found me. You found me.
Thank God. Thank God. You
gotta get me out of here. Sam.
What happened?
[sighs]
Can you hear me? How the
hell did you get down there?
[no audible dialogue]
Radio must be busted. Hang on.
I'm gonna get you out of there.
[sniffs]
[machine whirring]
[machine powers down]
[Sam sighs]
[grunts. pants]
[breathing heavily]
[pants. grunts]
I fell and I think I
gashed my arm when I fell.
Thank you for coming to get me.
You fucking asshole!
- What the fuck is wrong with you?
- Sam!
That tank in the Helios suit is
the only reason you're not dead!
- Sam. relax!
- What the fuck is wrong with you?
Sam. Sam. calm down.
[panting]
Hold still.
Ow.
Take it easy.
Okay. all done.
Thanks.
[Rich. on radio] Rover 7. Waters. come
in. Have you located Miles? Come in.
- We. uh... We should get back.
- Yeah.
Waters. rover 7. I found him. All
is fine. We're heading back soon.
[Rich] Great news. rover 7. Please
smack him in the head for me.
Is this accurate?
Yes.
[beeping]
[Semenov on phone. indistinct]
[in Russian] Come
in to my office.
[Semenov speaks Russian]
[in English] Sit.
I want you here.
[in Russian] Have a
seat. Comrade Semenov.
We were just going over
the accident report
issued by your department.
Is there some problem?
[in English] Tell
him what you told me.
There was a manufacturing error
in the asteroid anchor bolts
that were designed and built by Roscosmos.
but it wasn't caught by quality control.
They did not meet specifications
and should not have been
certified for flight.
That was one of the main
underlying causes of the failure.
What about Commander Baldwin
sanctioning an emergency EVA?
Your report was quite clear about
the command and control issues.
but even if everything had
gone according to plan.
those anchor bolts
would have failed.
And so would the mission.
Your report doesn't
mention this.
[speaks Russian]
[in English] I will not sit here
and listen to an American
making unfounded accusation...
You will sit here until
you are dismissed.
[clears throat] When they get this.
NASA will double-check every calculation
before combining it in
the joint incident report.
They'll realize that the extrapolated
tensile yield strengths of the bolts
couldn't possibly be correct.
And Roscosmos would be
accused then of a cover-up.
And President Korzhenko's government
embarrassed before the entire world.
[in Russian] Director. I...
[Irina] You're a good engineer.
You knew about this. didn't you?
But you didn't include
it in the report.
Why?
It was a units error made
early in fabrication.
NASA sent the torque
test specifications
in pound-feet. but we
work in Newton-meters.
And someone screwed
up the conversion.
The bolts passed
and we flew them.
Only after the
accident did we...
[sighs]
discover the error.
Who screwed up the conversion?
My team performed
the calculations
and therefore I am responsible.
Finally...
some accountability.
[in English] Excellent
work. Margaret. Stay here.
[in Russian] Come. Kirill.
[door opens]
[footsteps approaching]
[in English] It's a poem
Pushkin wrote in 1825.
He wrote it to Anna Petrovna
Kern. with whom he had an affair.
[in Russian] "Remote in my darkened
exile. the days dragged by so slowly.
Without grace.
Without inspiration.
Without tears. Without
life. Without love.
Then my spirit woke and
you... you appeared again.
Like a transient vision.
Like pure beauty's spirit."
[in English] You did a service
today to the Soviet Union.
And to me.
I want you to have this.
It's a picture of the engineers
of our ground control in 1969.
Sergei?
You knew him?
Yes.
We worked together. A long time.
He was a close friend.
Please accept this as a token of my
appreciation of what you've done today.
What will happen to him?
To Kirill?
He will find a new employment.
I wanted you here because I
know what you're capable of.
All of them. they're afraid.
Afraid of their own shadows.
You are different.
The Americans took
you for granted.
I will not.
And I assure you the
work we will do together
will take us far
into the cosmos.
Thank you. Director.
[electronic voice]
Pick up the pace.
- Pick up the pace.
- [panting]
Pick up the pace.
- Shut up.
- Pick up the pace.
- Pick up the pace. Pick up the pace.
- Shut the fuck up!
Pick up the pace.
- Pick up the pace.
- Shut the fuck up!
- You fucking piece of shit!
- Pick up the pace.
Eli. what's going on?
I'm sorry. I just...
It wouldn't shut the fuck up.
We both know the bike
isn't the problem.
I know. I'm sorry.
The president tore into
me. He was pretty peeved.
How peeved?
Well. he may have implied that I have
single-handedly brought back the Cold War.
[groans]
I'm sorry. I know
how hard this job is.
- I'm fine. It's just...
- You're not fine. Eli.
Your cholesterol's up
again. You're not sleeping.
You can barely sit down with
your hemorrhoids flaring up.
Is this you trying to
make me feel better. Kath?
You didn't have
to take this job.
I know.
I just... I felt it was...
- Your duty.
- Yeah.
I know. But there's
no end to that.
It's not like one day you wake up and
decide you've made enough of a difference.
The only difference I'm making now
is destroying our alliance on Mars.
Well. you'll figure it
out. hon. You always do.
[sighs. chuckles]
- I don't deserve you.
- Hmm. No. you don't.
It's only a few more years. I
promise I will make it up to you.
We're supposed to be enjoying
our retirement by now.
traveling around the world.
We have our whole
lives to travel.
We may not have knees to walk on by the
time you're done making a difference.
[chuckles] Well. a beach in Aruba does
sound really good right about now.
Mmm. Or a cruise down the Nile.
- [chuckles]
- Oh. you know what?
I read about this
temple in India.
India?
It was beautiful. Eli.
It's not the Taj Mahal.
It's in the south.
What is that city called
near the Indian Ocean?
Eli?
[mutters] No. I...
I just... I...
I think I just
figured something out.
- I got to go back to CSC.
- Now?
Thank you. I love you.
Eli.
You're still in your sweatpants.
India?
They're the only neutral
country in the M-7.
They've agreed to accept Svetlana
when she gets back to Earth.
She's gonna be put
on trial in India?
Korzhenko and President Gore
have already approved it.
And once she's on Unity.
Roscosmos has agreed to abide by
the terms of the Mars Charter.
and I'd be back in full
command of the base.
Ah. that's all well and good.
But what about Svetlana?
We can't just throw
her to the wolves.
No. of course not.
It'll be a fair trial.
With an independent judge
looking at all the evidence.
You really think the Soviets
are gonna abide by this deal?
The State Department's
already signed off on it.
They feel that with
the security protocols.
we can prevent any
kind of retribution.
Bunch of pencil dicks trying
to cover their own ass.
[stammers] This isn't right.
You... You need to refuse.
Yeah. just tell
him to go to hell.
Ed. I've already agreed.
You what?
Svetlana. she's not blameless
in all of this. all right?
She seriously injured
a Helios worker.
Intentional or not. there's got to be
some real repercussions for what she did.
You need to back me on this. Dani.
Svetlana is one of our best. right?
[stammers] And she-she's...
she's important to this base.
And-And she's important to
the asteroid capture team.
- I know that.
- Uh-uh.
Don't send her back. No. you...
No. you... you find another way.
I can't.
You won't.
I can't and I won't.
[Ed sighs]
Ah. of course not.
[chuckles] This is
so fucking typical.
Typical of what?
Of you!
Always so eager to please the
higher-ups to further your own career.
I came out of retirement
to take this job.
You think I give a
damn about my career?
If this is typical
of anybody. it's you.
What's that supposed to mean?
Time after time. you make exceptions
for the people you care about.
And now you're doing
it again with her.
You don't think I see what's
going on between the two of you?
Once again. you're letting your
personal feelings affect your judgment.
Once again?
Gordo on Jamestown.
Danny when we...
Wait. whatever happened
to Danny is not on me!
Really?
You don't remember me pleading
with you that he wasn't ready?
But you ignored me! Because
you didn't want to see it.
You let your emotions get the best
of you and because of that. he...
And because of that. what?
Now say it. Dani.
Say it.
[whispering] Say it.
Svetlana Zakharova will be on
Unity when it leaves tonight.
My decision is made.
[engineer speaks Russian]
Tatyana?
[in Russian] Are you okay?
The KGB took him.
Took who?
My mentor. Kirill Semenov.
No...
No. that's not...
He was fired. She wouldn't...
Of course she would.
She is one of them.
Two men came to his office
and they took him away.
in front of everyone.
No one did a thing.
Cowards. all of them.
[sniffles]
Even me.
[sniffling]
[speaks Russian]
[sniffles]
[door opens]
Good afternoon. everyone.
I have good news.
The Americans have folded.
Thanks to our efforts.
Cosmonaut Zakharova will stand trial
for her crimes against the state.
Great job. thank you.
Now we have another busy
day. so let's begin.
- [clears throat]
- [papers shuffling]
First item on the agenda...
[in English] This is everything.
Hopper launch is in
30 minutes. I suppose.
No. this isn't over.
Uh. Sveta. you don't have to...
If we leave now. we can
make it down to sublevel 4.
They're still working on the east
module there and it's pressurized.
but no one's down
there right now.
Edward.
I-I could bring you supplies and
food till all this blows over
and then we figure out
how we keep you here.
Edward. I will not let you destroy
your career to protect mine.
[knocks]
I'll walk her down.
Uh. sir. Are you sure? There's
a lot of angry people out there.
I said I'll walk her down.
Aye. aye. sir.
[both sigh]
[sniffles]
You ready?
Goodbye. Edward.
[sighs]